
Trilobyte Flick Player.  Version 0.90
Jamie Clay's Special Edition
(c) Copyright 1992 Trilobyte, all rights reserved.

This is version 0.90 of Trilobyte's SVGA FLICK player.  Loads and plays
both .FLI and .FLC animation files in all SVGA supported modes.


During playback:
     ESC/mouseclick -  exits animation
     1 - 9          -  varies playback speed (1 is the fastest)
     0              -  play at default speed
     PgUp / PgDown  -  increase / decrease palette luminence
     Home           -  reset the palette
     End            -  toggles greyscale mode

Command line options:
     -sn            -  change the playback speed n = 0-255
     -ln            -  number of loops to play n = 0-65535
     -g             -  stay in graphics mode once done
     -mn            -  force VESA mode n = 0-5
     -fn            -  fade in/out n = 1 in, 2 = out, 3=in & out
     -xn            -  set the x offset of the animation to n
     -yn            -  set the y offset of the animation to n
     -d             -  play the animation from disk



Play script format
(c) 1991 Trilobyte

Play scripts must have as there first line the word SCRIPT in caps, this
identifies the file as a script.

Comments may be added to the file by making the very first character of the
line a ; mark.

Animation command lines can be added after this.  The screen will not change
modes until the very last script is played.

For instance the following is a valid script:
SCRIPT
;
; Look scripts for play!!!!!
;
; play main.flc at speed 1, in VESA 1024x768 mode and loop twice
main.flc -s1 -m4 -l2
;
;
; play the final animation
end.flc 



Version 0.8 adds:
	Fixed a multitude of small bugs over a 3 month period

Version 0.7 adds:
	Added -mn command line for VESA mode
		n = 0 320x200x256
		n = 1 640x400x256
		n = 2 640x480x256
		n = 3 800x600x256
		n = 4 1024x768x256
		n = 5 1280x1024x256
	Added auto-res for animations in VESA mode
	Added -fn command line for fading in/out (n = 1 fade in, 
		n = 2 fade out, n = 3 fade in and out)
	Added mouse click to end animation
	Fixed non-VESA command line bug
	Made maximum animation size 53megs
	Added ascii script format

Note: Hercules Graphic Station support is limited to 3D Studio 640x480x256 .FLI playback
only.

Version 0.6 adds:
	Starts animations off at the correct speed
	Added -s command line option for speed (e.g. play myflie.fli -s9)
	Added -l command line option for looping (e.g play myfile.fli -l9)
	Added -g command line option for staying in graphic mode once done
	Added ability to play back Groovie 0.1 files
	Added Grey Scale toggle with Home key

Version 0.5 adds:
	Detects processor type and uses processor specific instructions
	Fixed bug on uncompressed .FLI files
	Added luminence control with Pgup/Pgdown keys (not on Hercules)
	Added Home key for returning back to original palette
	Fixed bug with palette fades
	Fixed VESA win.granulality bug
	Added support for RAM/EMS/FILE caching
	Made .FLI limit 16 megabytes

Version 0.4 fixes:
	Problems with storing seek position on some .fli files
	Problems with 320x200 first frame
	Hercules Graphics Station version uses 386 instructions
	Variable speed playback with 1-9 keys
	Escape from the program with the ESC key

Version 0.3 adds support for:
	Hercules Graphic Station Card
	Fixed bugs
	Made old 320x200x256 animations play in 320x200 mode
	Center other animations into middle of screen

Version 0.2 adds support for:
	Tseng 4000
	Oak Technologies
	VESA

How to use the Player

Using the program is simple.  All you have to do is type "PLAY filename.FLI
or ".FLC" or "PLAY scriptname.GRV", the program will try and detect the SVGA
card you have, and then start to play the animation in 640x480x256
resolution. Programs that generate .FLI's at this resolution include Autodesk
3D Studio and Autodesk Animator Pro.

For best results when using the player, play the animation with lots of
expanded memory free.  Play uses expanded memory to store the animation.  To
use expanded memory you must first install a driver like EMM.SYS.

To stop the player from animating, press the Esc key, the player will change 
back to text mode and return you to dos.

To vary the playback speed, press the keys 1-9 on the keyboard, pressing 0
will restore the speed saved in the animation.

To change the luminence of the animation use the Pgup/Pgdown keys, Home
returns the colors back to normal.

To toggle grey scale on/off press the Home key.  Useful for that old movie
effect.

To change the number of loops, use the -ln or /ln option on the command line.
For example:
	Play myfli.fli -l10
will play "myfli.fli" ten times.  The maximum number of loops is 65535.  A
value of 0 will loop forever.

To change the speed from the command line, use the -sn or /sn option.
For example:
	Play myfli.fli -s10
will play "myfli.fli" at speed ten.  Speeds can be between 0 and 255.

To stop Play changing the video mode back to text once finished, use the /g
or -g option on the command line.
For example:
	Play myfli.fli -l10 -s10 -g
will play "myfli.fli" ten times at speed ten and then stay in graphics mode
when it exits.
	
DISCLAIMER - AGREEMENT

Users of PLAY must accept this disclaimer of warranty:
"PLAY is supplied as is.  The author disclaims all
warranties, expressed or implied, including, without limitation,
the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose.
The author assumes no liability for damages, direct or conse-
quential, which may result from the use of PLAY."

PLAY V.90 is a "shareware program" and is provided at no charge
to the user for evaluation.  Feel free to share it with your
friends, but please do not give it away altered or as part of
another system.  The essence of "user-supported" software is to
provide personal computer users with quality software without
high prices, and yet to provide incentive for programmers to
continue to develop new products.  If you find this program
useful and find that you are using PLAY and continue to use
PLAY after a reasonable trial period, you must make a reg-
istration payment of $39.00 to Trilobyte.  The $39.00
registration fee will license one copy for use on any one
computer at any one time.  You must treat this software just like
a book.  An example is that this software may be used by any
number of people and may be freely moved from one computer
location to another, so long as there is no possibility of it
being used at one location while it's being used at another.
Just as a book cannot be read by two different persons at the
same time.

Commercial users of PLAY must register and pay for their
copies of PLAY within 30 days of first use or their license
is withdrawn.  Site-License arrangements may be made by contacting
Trilobyte at the address below.

Anyone distributing PLAY for any kind of remuneration must
first contact Trilobyte at the address below for authorization.

You are encouraged to pass a copy of PLAY V.90 along to your
friends for evaluation.  Please encourage them to register their
copy if they find that they can use it.  All registered users
will receive a copy of the latest version of the PLAY
system, the scripting program "Groovie", software support via mail, and
free upgrades/fixes for 90 days from date of registration.

DEFINITION OF SHAREWARE

Shareware distribution gives users a chance to try software
before buying it. If you try a Shareware program and continue
using it, you are expected to register. Individual programs
differ on details -- some request registration while others
require it, some specify a maximum trial period.

Copyright laws apply to both Shareware and commercial software,
and the copyright holder retains all rights, with a few specific
exceptions as stated below. Shareware authors are accomplished
programmers, just like commercial authors, and the programs are
of comparable quality. (In both cases, there are good programs
and bad ones!) The main difference is in the method of
distribution. The author specifically grants the right to copy
and distribute the software, either to all and sundry or to a
specific group. For example, some authors require written
permission before a commercial disk vendor may copy their
Shareware.

Shareware is a distribution method, not a type of software. You
should find software that suits your needs and pocketbook,
whether it's commercial or Shareware. The Shareware system makes
fitting your needs easier, because you can try before you buy.
And because the overhead is low, prices are low also. Shareware
has the ultimate money-back guarantee -- if you don't use the
product, you don't pay for it.

If you would like to register, please send a check, made payable to Trilobyte,
for $39 to:

	Trilobyte
	PO Box 1412
	Jacksonville
	Oregon, 97530

	(503) 899 1113

YOU HAVE TO REGISTER TO GET THE SCRIPT MAKER "GROOVIE" !!!

* U.S. funds only.  Non-U.S. customers please use International Postal Order

If you have any comments, please send them to:
	Compuserve: 72330,3276
        Genie     : R.LANDEROS
	Internet  : 72330,3276@compuserve.com
        Bix       : gdevine

Planned changes so far are:
	Support for more graphic cards (including Targa)
	A version for Windows
	A Protected Mode version for faster playback

Thank you for using the Trilobyte SVGA FLICK & Groovie Player
